



W3C WebAuthn Working Group                                     J. Hodges
Internet-Draft                                                    PayPal
Intended status: Informational                                G. Mandyam
Expires: August 31, 2018                      Qualcomm Technologies Inc.
                                                                M. Jones
                                                               Microsoft
                                                       February 27, 2018


              Registries for Web Authentication (WebAuthn)
                  draft-hodges-webauthn-registries-01

Abstract

   This specification defines IANA registries for W3C Web Authentication
   attestation statement formats and extension identifiers.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at https://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on August 31, 2018.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2018 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents
   (https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info) in effect on the date of
   publication of this document.  Please review these documents
   carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions with respect
   to this document.  Code Components extracted from this document must
   include Simplified BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of
   the Trust Legal Provisions and are provided without warranty as
   described in the Simplified BSD License.



Hodges, et al.           Expires August 31, 2018                [Page 1]

Internet-DraftRegistries for Web Authentication (WebAuthn) February 2018


Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   2
   2.  WebAuthn Attestation Statement Format Identifier Registry . .   2
   3.  WebAuthn Extension Identifier Registry  . . . . . . . . . . .   3
   4.  IANA Considerations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   4
     4.1.  WebAuthn Attestation Statement Format Identifier and
           Extension Identifiers Registries  . . . . . . . . . . . .   4
   5.  Security Considerations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   5
   6.  Acknowledgements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   5
   7.  Document History  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   5
   8.  Normative References  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   5
   Authors' Addresses  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   6

1.  Introduction

   This specification establishes IANA registries for W3C Web
   Authentication [WebAuthn] attestation statement formats and extension
   identifiers.  The initial values for these registries are in the IANA
   Considerations section of the [WebAuthn] specification.

2.  WebAuthn Attestation Statement Format Identifier Registry

   WebAuthn attestation statement format identifiers are strings whose
   semantic, syntactic, and string-matching criteria are specified in
   [WebAuthn], along with the concepts of attestation and attestation
   statement formats.

   WebAuthn attestation statement formats are registered on the advice
   of a Designated Expert (appointed by the IESG or their delegate),
   with a Specification Required (per [RFC5226]).

   The Expert(s) will establish procedures for requesting registrations,
   and make them available from the registry page.

   Registration requests consist of at least the following information:

   o  WebAuthn Attestation Statement Format Identifier: This identifier
      MUST be a maximum of 32 octets in length and MUST consist only of
      printable USASCII characters, excluding backslash and doublequote.
      This name is case sensitive.  Names may not match other registered
      names in a case-insensitive manner unless the Designated Experts
      state that there is a compelling reason to allow an exception.
   o  Description: A relatively short description of the attestation
      format.
   o  Specification Document: Reference to the specification of the
      attestation statement format.
   o  Notes: [optional]



Hodges, et al.           Expires August 31, 2018                [Page 2]

Internet-DraftRegistries for Web Authentication (WebAuthn) February 2018


   The Expert(s) MAY define additional fields to be collected in the
   registry.  Each attestation statement format identifier added to this
   registry MUST be unique amongst the set of registered attestation
   statement format identifiers.  The Experts(s) MAY also designate
   attestation statement formats as proprietary if they lack complete
   specifications, and will assign a prefix indicating as such to the
   identifier.

   Registrations MUST reference a freely available specification, e.g.,
   as described in [RFC2026] Section 7.

   Note that WebAuthn attestation statement formats can be registered by
   third parties, if the Expert(s) determine that an unregistered
   attestation statement format is widely deployed and not likely to be
   registered in a timely manner.

   Decisions (or lack thereof) made by the Designated Expert can be
   first appealed to Application Area Directors (contactable using app-
   ads@tools.ietf.org email address or directly by looking up their
   email addresses on http://www.iesg.org/ website) and, if the
   appellant is not satisfied with the response, to the full IESG (using
   the iesg@iesg.org mailing list).


3.  WebAuthn Extension Identifier Registry

   WebAuthn extension identifiers are strings whose semantic, syntactic,
   and string-matching criteria are specified in [WebAuthn].

   WebAuthn extension identifiers are registered on the advice of a
   Designated Expert (appointed by the IESG or their delegate), with a
   Specification Required (per [RFC5226]).

   The Expert(s) will establish procedures for requesting registrations,
   and make them available from the registry page.

   Registration requests consist of at least the following information:

   o  WebAuthn Extension Identifier: This identifier MUST be a maximum
      of 32 octets in length and MUST consist only of printable USASCII
      characters, excluding backslash and doublequote.  This name is
      case sensitive.  Names may not match other registered names in a
      case-insensitive manner unless the Designated Experts state that
      there is a compelling reason to allow an exception.
   o  Description: A relatively short description of the extension.
   o  Specification Document: Reference to the specification of the
      extension.
   o  Notes: [optional]



Hodges, et al.           Expires August 31, 2018                [Page 3]

Internet-DraftRegistries for Web Authentication (WebAuthn) February 2018


   The Expert(s) MAY define additional fields to be collected in the
   registry.  Each extension identifier added to this registry MUST be
   unique amongst the set of registered extension identifiers.

   Registrations MUST reference a freely available specification, e.g.,
   as described in [RFC2026] Section 7.

   Note that WebAuthn extensions can be registered by third parties, if
   the Expert(s) determine that an unregistered extension is widely
   deployed and not likely to be registered in a timely manner.

   Decisions (or lack thereof) made by the Designated Expert can be
   first appealed to Application Area Directors (contactable using app-
   ads@tools.ietf.org email address or directly by looking up their
   email addresses on http://www.iesg.org/ website) and, if the
   appellant is not satisfied with the response, to the full IESG (using
   the iesg@iesg.org mailing list).

4.  IANA Considerations

4.1.  WebAuthn Attestation Statement Format Identifier and Extension
      Identifiers Registries

   This specification establishes two registries:

   o  the "WebAuthn Attestation Statement Format Identifier" registry;
      see Section 2.
   o  the "WebAuthn Extension Identifier" registry; see Section 3.

   For both registries, the Expert(s) and IANA will interact as outlined
   below:

   IANA will direct any incoming requests regarding the registry to the
   processes established by the Expert(s); typically, this will mean
   referring them to the registry HTML page.

   The Expert(s) will provide registry data to IANA in an agreed form
   (e.g., a specific XML format).  IANA will publish:

   o  The raw registry data
   o  The registry data, transformed into HTML
   o  The registry data in any alternative formats provided by the
      Expert(s)

   Each published document will be at a URL agreed to by IANA and the
   Expert(s) and IANA will set HTTP response headers on them as
   (reasonably) requested by the Expert(s).




Hodges, et al.           Expires August 31, 2018                [Page 4]

Internet-DraftRegistries for Web Authentication (WebAuthn) February 2018


   Additionally, the HTML generated by IANA will:

   o  Take directions from the Expert(s) as to the content of the HTML
      page's introductory text and markup.
   o  Include a stable HTML fragment identifier for each registered
      attestation statement format or extension identifier.

   All registry data documents MUST include Simplified BSD License text
   as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions
   (<http://trustee.ietf.org/license-info>).

5.  Security Considerations

   See [WebAuthn] for relevant security considerations.

6.  Acknowledgements

   Thanks to Mark Nottingham for valuable comments and suggestions.
   Thanks to Kathleen Moriarty and Benjamin Kaduk for their Area
   Director sponsorship of this specification.

7.  Document History

   [[ to be removed by the RFC Editor before publication as an RFC ]]

   -01

   o  Refresh now that the WebAuthn Committee Recommendation (CR) draft
      is pending.

   -00

   o  Initial version.

8.  Normative References

   [RFC2026]  Bradner, S., "The Internet Standards Process -- Revision
              3", BCP 9, RFC 2026, DOI 10.17487/RFC2026, October 1996,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2026>.

   [RFC5226]  Narten, T. and H. Alvestrand, "Guidelines for Writing an
              IANA Considerations Section in RFCs", RFC 5226,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC5226, May 2008,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5226>.







Hodges, et al.           Expires August 31, 2018                [Page 5]

Internet-DraftRegistries for Web Authentication (WebAuthn) February 2018


   [WebAuthn]
              Balfanz, D., Czeskis, A., Hodges, J., Jones, J., Jones,
              M., Kumar, A., Liao, A., Lindemann, R., and E. Lundberg,
              "Web Authentication: An API for accessing Public Key
              Credentials",  Editors' Draft, World Wide Web Consortium
              (W3C) Recommendation-track, February 2018,
              <https://w3c.github.io/webauthn/>.

Authors' Addresses

   Jeff Hodges
   PayPal
   2211 North First Street
   San Jose, California  95131
   US

   Email: Jeff.Hodges@PayPal.com
   URI:   http://kingsmountain.com/people/Jeff.Hodges/


   Giridhar Mandyam
   Qualcomm Technologies Inc.
   5775 Morehouse Drive
   San Diego, California  92121
   USA

   Phone: +1 858 651 7200
   Email: mandyam@qti.qualcomm.com


   Michael B. Jones
   Microsoft

   Email: mbj@microsoft.com
   URI:   http://self-issued.info/
















Hodges, et al.           Expires August 31, 2018                [Page 6]
